title: Commenting on this blog
Date:2017-02-05
tags: Pelican
category: How To
author: Abraham Vinod
summary: I have chosen not to implement a commenting system. You can instead email me your comments. I also describe how to print a custom message based on article title.

Static website generators are good in the sense that they are quick and cheap
to develop[^wiki] and robust when it comes to trolls, spambots, and hackers[^hacking]
(in general). However, my blog lacked one feature --- commenting.
Since the purpose of this blog is to disseminate my research work and other
ideas that may/may not be useful to the world, I definitely want to open up this blog posts for discussion. However, after much
thought, I have decided to leave out the commenting feature on this
blog[^popsci]. 

I removed Disqus, however, by commenting the line having
`includes/disqus_script.html` in `pelican-bootstrap3/templates/base.html` and
the line having `includes/comments.html` in
`pelican-bootstrap3/templates/article.html` and
`pelican-bootstrap3/templates/page.html`.

To still allow for discussion, I wanted to remind the readers that they can
always contact me via email. I wanted this message to appear only on webpages
which I thought deserved commenting. So, I added the following code in
`pelican-bootstrap3/templates/includes/footer.html`. The if-condition ensures
that the message is skipped for webpages where I do not want to display this
message. The variable `output_file` is generated by Pelican and contains the
relative path for every webpage from the site URL.

```python
{% if output_file in ['index.html','categories.html','tags.html','archives.html'] or output_file[0:5] in ['pages'] or output_file[0:4] in ['tags'] or output_file[0:8] in ['category'] or output_file[0:6] in ['author'] %}
<!-- Files that need to be skipped. Use {{ output_file }} to know the title of the page.-->
{% else %}
    <div class="container entry-content">
        <p>Please send me your questions/comments via <a href="mailto:YOUR_EMAIL">email</a> --- <code>YOUR_EMAIL</code>.</p>
    </div>
    </br>
{% endif %}
```
Ideally, I would like the message appear here (above the bar separating the
footnotes) but I am still figuring out how Pelican generates footnotes.
[^wiki]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Static_web_page
[^hacking]: https://www.bassi.io/articles/2014/07/18/building-a-website-with-pelican/
[^popsci]: http://www.popsci.com/science/article/2013-09/why-were-shutting-our-comments
